Klaytn safe docs (#506)
klaytn/klaytn-docs: docs/toolkit/klaytn-safe.md

# Introduction <a id="klaytn-safe-"></a>

> In a typical blockchain platform like Klaytn, most users are familiar with single key wallet systems such as Kaikas and Metamask, which are also known as externally owned accounts (EOA). These accounts make use of traditional key pairs, i.e., public keys and private keys, which isn’t ideal as the private key creates a single point of failure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a typical blockchain platform like Klaytn, most users are familiar with single key wallet systems such as Kaikas and MetaMask, which are also known as externally owned accounts (EOA). These accounts make use of traditional key pairs, i.e., public keys and private keys, which isn’t ideal as the private key creates a single point of failure. 
```

This makes EOAs unsuitable for organisational use, as a compromised private key could lead to the organisation losing all of its crypto funds—such was the case in the Wintermute hack where $162.5 million was lost. 

This is where multisig wallets like Klaytn Safe come in. Unlike single key wallets, a multi-sig wallet needs multiple parties' private keys to sign and execute a transaction, removing the single point of failure and providing greater security for organisational use cases.

# What are MultiSig Wallets? <a id="What are Multisig Wallets"></a>

As the name implies, a multi-signature wallet is a digital wallet that requires two, three, or more private keys from different sources to confirm and execute a crypto transaction.

For example: You can imagine a multi-signature wallet as a safe that has three locks, and the three keys required to open the safe are with three different individuals, thus requiring their joint consent to open.

Here are the main benefits of multisig wallets:

> Store assets/funds securely: Companies and protocols can store their funds safely without worrying about a private key leak or one bad actor moving funds without authorization..

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Store assets/funds securely: Companies and protocols can store their funds safely without worrying about a private key leak or one bad actor moving funds without authorization.

```

> Enable decentralised decision making: Companies and business executives can make on-chain decisions on which transactions to execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Enable decentralised decision making: Companies and business executives can make on-chain decisions on which transactions to execute.

```

> Two-factor authentication: With the help of multisig wallets, businesses and individuals can make sure that only those with access to the necessary keys can execute transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Two-factor authentication: With the help of multisig wallets, businesses and individuals can make sure that only those with access to the necessary keys can execute transactions.

```

# Introduction <a id="klaytn-safe-"></a>

In a typical blockchain platform like Klaytn, most users are familiar with single key wallet systems such as Kaikas and MetaMask, which are also known as externally owned accounts (EOA). These accounts make use of traditional key pairs, i.e., public keys and private keys, which isn’t ideal as the private key creates a single point of failure. 

This makes EOAs unsuitable for organisational use, as a compromised private key could lead to the organisation losing all of its crypto funds—such was the case in the Wintermute hack where $162.5 million was lost. 

This is where multisig wallets like Klaytn Safe come in. Unlike single key wallets, a multi-sig wallet needs multiple parties' private keys to sign and execute a transaction, removing the single point of failure and providing greater security for organisational use cases.

# What are MultiSig Wallets? <a id="What are Multisig Wallets"></a>

As the name implies, a multi-signature wallet is a digital wallet that requires two, three, or more private keys from different sources to confirm and execute a crypto transaction.

> For example: You can imagine a multi-signature wallet as a safe that has three locks, and the three keys required to open the safe are with three different individuals, thus requiring their joint consent to open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can imagine a multi-signature wallet as a safe that has three locks. The three keys required to open the safe are with three different individuals, thus requiring their joint consent to open.
```

* [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/) & [Klaytn Remix Plugin](https://klaytn.foundation/using-klaytn-plugin-on-remix/)
* Obtain test KLAY from the [Faucet](https://baobab.wallet.klaytn.foundation/faucet)

**Step 1:** Navigate to [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/)

**Step 2:** Compile and deploy the sample **storage contract**.

The contract must first be deployed before you may interact with it in your multisig wallet. This sample contract contains a simple uint “number” variable that can be updated by calling the **store** method and retrieved by calling the **retrieve** method.

![](img/klaytn-safe/12_remixDep.gif)

**Step 3:** Initiate a new transaction. 

To interact with a smart contract in your safe wallet, click **"New Transaction"** To complete this step, you will need your already deployed contract address and ABI, as illustrated in the previous step.

![](img/klaytn-safe/13_contractInit.gif)

**Step 4:** Review and submit the transaction. You will need to sign the transaction with your signer wallet, and it will be executed once the confirmation threshold is reached.

![](img/klaytn-safe/14_contractExec.gif)

## Transaction Builder <a id="Transaction Builder"></a>

> This is a custom app in Klaytn Safe that is responsible for batching transactions. This means that when we want to execute several transactions, instead of having to confirm a set of transactions one after the other, they can be bundled together into a single transaction so users just have to confirm and execute once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a custom app in Klaytn Safe that is responsible for batching transactions. This means that we you can bundle several transactions together, instead of having to confirm one transaction after the other. You just have to confirm and execute once.
```

With transaction builder, you can compose transactions from token transfers to complex contract interactions and batch them into a single transaction.

**Illustration**

> A real world example is when you want to airdrop tokens to a long list of addresses, say 100 DRIP tokens to 10 addresses. Instead of having to create 10 transactions, which the owners of your safe have to confirm and execute one after the other, the transaction builder puts all these transfers into a single transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you want to airdrop tokens to a long list of addresses, say 100 DRIP tokens to 10 addresses. Instead of having to create 10 transactions, which the owners of your safe have to confirm and execute one after the other, the transaction builder puts all these transfers into a single transaction.
```

> Please keep in mind that, for the purposes of this guide, we have minted DRIP tokens to the Safe address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we have minted DRIP tokens to the Safe address for illustrative purpose.
```

> Let’s get started with this simple example using Transaction Builder!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s get started with this example using Transaction Builder!
```

**Step 1:** Open Safe Apps.

![](img/klaytn-safe/15_safeApps.png)

**Step 2:** Open the Transaction Builder Safe app

![](img/klaytn-safe/16_safeTxBuilder.png)

**Step 3:** Enter your token contract address and ABI. In this example, DRIP contract address and ABI will be used. You can copy and paste your ABI into the “Enter ABI” field.

![](img/klaytn-safe/17_safeTxBatchAddrAbi.gif)

**Step 4:** Select a method and fill the transaction information

> From the drop-down you can select a method. In this case, we select the  transfer method. For this step to be completed, you have to fill out the transaction information, such as **to(address)** and **amount(uint256)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the drop-down you can select a method. In this case, we select the **transfer** method. For this step to be completed, you have to fill out the transaction information, such as **to(address)** and **amount(uint256)**.
```

> Please note: The value is an unsigned integer without any decimals. In this example, the DRIP token has 18 decimals. So if you want to send 1 DRIP, you have to enter 1000000000000000000. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The value is an unsigned integer without any decimals. In this example, the DRIP token has 18 decimals. So if you want to send 1 DRIP, you have to enter 1000000000000000000. 
```

![](img/klaytn-safe/18_safeTxBatchTxInfo.gif)

> **Step 5:** Click **"Add transaction"**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 5:** Click **Add transaction**
```

 
**Step 6:** Repeat steps **4**, **5**, and **6** for every recipient address.
 

> **Step 7:** Once you added all operations to the batch click "Create Batch"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 7:** Once you added all operations to the batch click **Create Batch**
```

![](img/klaytn-safe/19_safeTxBatch.gif)

**Step 8:** Review and submit transaction

> You'll be able to review the whole batch. Once ready, click "Send Batch" to submit and execute the transaction just like any other Safe transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll be able to review the whole batch. Once ready, click **Send Batch** to submit and execute the transaction just like any other Safe transaction.
```

![](img/klaytn-safe/20_safeTxBuildExec.gif)

# Important Notes <a id="Important Notes"></a>

The following are things you will want to keep in mind while using Klaytn Safe:

## Transaction Fees <a id="Transaction Fees"></a>
Klaytn Safe transactions, whether asset transfers or contract interactions, incur a fee that will be paid by the signer that executes the transaction (usually the last signer to reach the required threshold of signatures).

## Safe Nonce <a id="Safe Nonce"></a>

![](img/klaytn-safe/21_safeNounce.png)

For security reasons, transactions made with Safe need to be executed in order. To achieve this, a number called **nonce** is assigned to a transaction to ensure that each transaction can be executed once. 

> At any given time, only transactions with a nonce of **last executed transaction +1** can be executed. Transactions with a higher nonce are queued for execution. So, whenever a transaction is completed, the next transaction in the queue is made available for execution, provided it has accumulated enough signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At any given time, only transactions with a nonce _last executed transaction +1_ can be executed. Transactions with a higher nonce are queued for execution. So, whenever a transaction is completed, the next transaction in the queue is made available for execution, provided it has accumulated enough signatures.
```

## Chain-specific addresses <a id="Chain-specific addresses"></a>

![](img/klaytn-safe/22_chainSpec.png)

You can choose whether to prepend short chain names across Safes.

* Prepend addresses with chain prefix: You can prepend the chain name “baobab” to the address by clicking the first check box or otherwise.

![](img/klaytn-safe/23_acctPrepend.png)

* Copy addresses with chain prefix:

![](img/klaytn-safe/24_chainAddrError.png)

When copying your safe address from your dashboard to paste in your wallet as seen above, you can either choose to add the chain name or not by clicking the checkbox. It is suggested that you leave it unchecked to avoid the error above.

![](img/klaytn-safe/25_copyAcctPrepend.png)

> Klaytn Safe is an extremely powerful tool for the management of your projects, company funds, and transaction automation. Creating a Safe account provides security against private key hacks and other unforeseen situations that may cause your funds to be lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Conclusion

Klaytn Safe is an extremely powerful tool for the management of your projects, company funds, and transaction automation. Creating a Safe account provides security against private key hacks and other unforeseen situations that may cause your funds to be lost.
```
